[docs] Create the FormControl page (#32073)
mui/material-ui: docs/data/base/components/form-control/form-control.md

---
product: base
title: React form control
components: FormControlUnstyled
packageName: '@mui/base'
---

# Unstyled form control

<p class="description">
  The FormControlUnstyled is a utility that lets you associate a form input with auxillary components,
  such as labels, error indicators or helper text.
</p>

{{"component": "modules/components/ComponentLinkHeader.js", "design": false}}

## FormControlUnstyled

> FormControlUnstyled wraps an input and other components and enables reflecting the input's state in these other components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
FormControlUnstyled wraps an input and other components, enabling to reflect the input's state in these other components.
```

> For instance, you may show additional element asking the user to enter a value if the input is empty or display a warning icon when the entered value is incorrect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For instance, you may want to show an additional element asking the user to enter a value if the input is empty, or display a warning icon if the entered value is incorrect.
```

The FormControlUnstyled provides a context that can be read by the useFormControl hook.

## useFormControl hook

The useFormControl hook can be used to enable integration between custom form inputs and FormControlUnstyled.
Additionally, you can read the form control's state and react to its changes in a custom component.

The demo below shows both.
`CustomInput` is a wrapper around a native HTML `input` that adds FormControlUnstyled integration.
`ControlStateDisplay` reads the state of the form control and displays it as text.

> {{"demo": "UseFormControl.js", "defaultCodeOpen": false}}

Reviewer: Suggestion: Since we have only 1 demo in this page, we can show the code by default.

Author: I decided not to show it as the code in the preview does not explain the concept. It's the code outside the main function that matters in this case.

| `filled`   | boolean | Set to `true` if `value` is not empty.                                                                                                                                 |
| `focused`  | boolean | Set to `true` if the wrapped input has received focus.                                                                                                                 |
| `required` | boolean | Represents the value of the FormControlUnstyled's `required` prop.                                                                                                     |
| `value`    | unknown | The current value of the form control.                                                                                                                                 |

Additionally, the following callbacks are a part of the returned object.
They are meant to be used when creating custom inputs.

| Name       | Type                      | Description                                                   |
| ---------- | ------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | `onChange` | React.ChangeEvent => void | Change handler. Should be forwarded to the inner input.       |

Reviewer: Suggestion: `Input value change handler` is more descriptive?
